hi i'm jay french from
jayfrenchstudios.com and i'm going to
teach you how to draw an elephant of
course you could do a cartoony elephant
is going to be much simpler we're gonna
show you the basics of drawing a
realistic elephant you kind of want to
get your egg shape for a head we're
doing kind of a profile shot and another
thing is that we are doing an African
elephant an Indian elephant looks very
different they have much more dropped
ears they're smaller backs of an
elephant because of their sides they're
always bowed downward you have basically
the mass of the body and you can think
of it as this sort of curved oval it's a
good way to start the head of an
elephant's very complicated or will
throw you off because it's not just a
big round thing like you'd think it
would be from this angle we got a nice
oval start but when you get to the face
we want to get a lot more precise I'm
getting the edge of the ear in here
again here's where we can tell it's an
African elephant cuz they have much
larger spread out ears really gonna see
the edge of this one
and one of the main things about the
face of an elephant is that its shape is
something of an hourglass you have a
bulb of a forehead
it indents comes back out where the eyes
are so from on this side we'll just have
a shadow on the outer edge we'll
actually see that shape eyes are very
small and proportionate of course one of
the most prominent features of an
elephant this is where you start to see
it the wrinkles the looseness of the
skin you'll see it right around the eyes
very prominently and this angle we can't
see the other eye get a few across the
forehead usually
now we've got tusks on this guy because
again he's an African elephant and also
in this angle we're not gonna be able to
see the mouth very well it's very
difficult to see basically they have to
have their trunks raised in order to see
an elephant's mouth photo source I'm
using has his trunk curled under which
actually is a little easier if you want
to start there that's a good a good shot
to use because it's a simpler beginning
learn how to draw the basics first
this is where the the wrinkles on an
elephant are the strongest is on across
the nose we're going to get them real
basic here you see a little bit of that
other tusk
remember that hourglass shape and then
you have a the nose extending from that
from there here's where the cartoony
really differs from realism their legs
are not nearly as stout as you think
they are
or as cartoons lead you to believe they
are
like any four-legged animal the front
legs are fairly straight and long the
back legs a little more curvature to
them and there you have a basic lesson
in how to draw an elephant